---
layout: page
title: Vacancies
---

The TU Delft Software Engineering Research Group has the following vacancies: 

## PhD student in Software Testing

The Software Engineering Research Group (SERG) has recently acquired a NWO Vici
grant called TestShift. The Vici grant is the most prestigious personal
research grant from the Dutch Science Foundation NWO and will reinforce the
software testing research line at Delft University of Technology. 

For this project we are seeking enthusiastic Master students interested in
obtaining a PhD degree in the cross-section of software testing, human computer
interaction, and socio-technical factors in software engineering. The
prospective PhD student is expected to do high-quality research: coming up with
creative solutions, working diligently to iron out all details and getting a
deeper understanding, interacting with peers around the world, but also
interacting with practitioners from both the open source and industrial domain
to evaluate your research.

[TestShift](https://testshiftproject.github.io/) is rooted in empirical
software engineering and will make use of
research methods such as ethnography, longitudinal field studies and case
studies.

[I want to know more...](vacancies/testshift.html)

**Contact:** Andy Zaidman (a.e.zaidman@tudelft.nl)


## PhD / Postdoc on Machine learning for Software Engineering

Machine learning and AI have recently revolutionized research and practice in
areas such as Image Processing, Natural Language Processing and autonomous
systems. Recently, machine learning techniques, mostly stemming from the NLP
domain, have been applied on software engineering problems, with promising
results. Despite this, we are just at the beginning: the field is ripe with
opportunity for high impact and exiting applications!

For this project, we are seeking both a PhD (4 years) and a PostDoc (2 years)
to work on applying machine learning techniques in the context of dependency
management. The goal is to come up with techniques to model, analyze and reason
about problems with OSS library reuse, at the ecosystem level (e.g., analyzing
the whole of Maven or PyPI) and use those techniques to come up with tools that
will make dependenchy management safer. 

[I want to know more...](vacancies/fasten.html)

**Contact:** Georgios Gousios (g.gousios@tudelft.nl)



